In this video I'll explain equal cost multi-pass thing using the NSX atch.
So we'll talk about the equal costs multi-pass things Sopore and what capabilities the NSX can provide.
Well we'll talk about what happens when a failure of the NSX occurs if we haven't SCMP configuration
and will also talk about compatibility issues with this feature.
So as of NSX 6.1 equal cost multipath thing is now supported and traffic can traverse multiple edge
gateways in a balanced manner.
This method offers higher bandwidth supporting up to 10 gigabits per second per edge and a maximum of
eight and a 6 and gateways can be deployed in this model.
In this type of deployment all of the NSX and instances will form a neighbor relationship with the logical
routing control virtual machine.
So here we see the DL our control VM and all the NSX edges are going to form a routing peer relationship
with the DLR control via And each of the edges will also form a neighbor relationship with the physical
router as well.
These dynamic routing protocols will help us recover from failures.
So let's talk about what happens when an NSX edge fails and we have equal costs multipath and enable.
So in this scenario we have traffic that's being distributed across multiple unique NSX edges these
edges don't have any relationship with each other.
There are no synchronization or sharing of state information between the NSX outages when they're an
equal cost multi-pack the amount.
And that means that if that fails all of the traffic and all of the link information associated with
that edge also fails.
And let's assume that the DLR and the NSX edges and the physical router are all using OSPF
Well what this means is that if an NSX edge fails an update to the routing tables going to occur and
the faster we can get this routing update pushed out the sooner that traffic will start flowing again.
So this is very different than NSX you state for high availability state stateful high ability gives
you an active and a standby and there's almost immediate fail over with NSX edge and equal cost multipath
thing.
We want to set a very aggressive dead timer with our routing protocol so that if an edge does fail the
routing protocol will detect that really quickly an alternate routes will be used for that traffic.
Now OSPF and BGP both support dead at intervals as short as three seconds the NSX edge and equal cost
multipath mode is incompatible with some stateful features such as the NSX edge firewall.
So let's take a look at an example.
Here in this diagram let's say that virtual machine one generates some traffic bound for an external
network and maybe somebody goes in and opens a web browser and points to a Web site like trayner test
dot.
As that traffic flows out.
It's going to hit the NSX atch and the NSX edge will analyze the firewall to determine if that traffic
should be allowed out or up and if it matches a permit rule and the firewall then yeah that traffic
is going to be allowed to flow out to the external network.
Now some response traffic comes back but this time instead of handing the NSX edge instance that is
aware of the current state of this connection because we're using SCMP the return traffic might actually
flow back in through a different at each equal cost multipath thing supports routes through multiple
edges to and from the same destination.
So that return traffic might potentially come in through a different edge and that other edge may not
be aware of the state of that connection and it might block that traffic.
So that's just something to consider if you're possibly thinking about utilizing the NSX edgin ECMO.
Now let's take a look at how this behaves within a high availability cluster with three or more hosts
so notice that we have two virtual machines on two different hosts and there's two different shared
storage systems also available down here at the bottom of the screen and all of our hosts have access
to all of our data stores.
And this is important and it's of course is recommended as well.
So let's assume that the host that adds to runtime fails something happens that ESX I host and it's
no longer functioning well the files of that NSX edge are still intact on the data store.
We can see the files for that Vergine machine are still sitting there and data store too and are accessible
to our other ESX hosts.
So this means that vse very high availability can bring up that failed edge on another host.
Right.
That edge can come up just like any other virtual machine.
The edge can now re-establish those neighbor relationships.
And we can begin equal costs multi-pack think again.
One final consideration to bear in mind here we see a couple of NSX agist.
I'd label them active edge or stand by Edge but in reality they could both be independent Agis configured
for equal cost multipath.
Regardless I want to make sure that these edges stay on the appropriate hosts.
There's not really a whole lot of point in doing equal costs multipath thing and having multiple edges
if those edges get moved by address and end up on the same host.
So we want to create anti affinity rules to govern that these virtual machines should not end up on
the same ESX I host.
So now we can see in this cluster maybe we have fully automated DRM enabled.
And so what has happened here is both of these victims both of these NSA gadgets have gotten migrated
to the same host.
And if that host fails.
Well now we're out of luck because we've lost both of our NSX outages.
So of course we want to create some management controls that prevent this.
And the way to accomplish that is to configure a as anti affinity role to force those edges to remain
on different ESX I.
So in review the NSX now supports equal cost multi-pack thing as of NSX 6.1.
And this allows us to balance out the egressed traffic workload over multiple agist and multiple ESX
host.
There is no synchronization there's no stateful fail over.
There's no active in standby.
Each one of the edges is independent virtual machines and they don't synchronize with each other.
And if one of them fails the network will heal itself using dynamic routing protocols.
So we want to see very aggressive dead timers with equal costs multipath thing so that if a failure
does occur the fail over happens very quickly.
And again SCMP is incompatible with stateful features such as the NSX Hadj firewall and network address
translation.